Internal java solution for CSES Movie Festival II (#2129)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/cses-1632.mdx

id: cses-1632
source: CSES
title: Movie Festival II
author: Shreyas Thumathy, Benjamin Qi, Nathan Gong
---

## Explanation

The first step is the same as that of
[Movie Festival](/silver/greedy-sorting#example---the-scheduling-problem); sort
the movies in increasing order of end time. For each movie in order, we will
assign it to one of the $k$ members to watch (or none of them).

Keep track of the time each member finishes watching all of his currently
assigned movies in an ordered multiset

> ([represented](https://usaco.guide/silver/intro-ordered/?lang=java#multisets) by
> a `TreeMap` in Java). Initially, the collection consists of $k$ zeroes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
([represented](/silver/intro-ordered/#multisets) by
a `TreeMap` in Java or a `multiset` in C++). Initially, the collection consists of $k$ zeroes.
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>

<Warning>
Input classes like `Scanner` and `BufferedReader` are too slow for this problem,
so we have to use [`FastIO`](https://usaco.guide/general/fast-io?lang=java#method-5---inputstream) (which reads bytes directly from an input stream) instead.
</Warning>

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class MovieFestival2 {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		FastIO io = new FastIO();
		int n = io.nextInt();
		int k = io.nextInt();

		Interval[] movies = new Interval[n];
		for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
			movies[i] = new Interval(io.nextInt(), io.nextInt());
		}
		// sort movies based on end time
		Arrays.sort(movies, Comparator.comparingInt(movie -> movie.end));

> 		int ans = 0;

Reviewer 2: maybe rename to `maxMovies`

		// times when members will finish watching their movies
		TreeMap<Integer, Integer> endTimes = new TreeMap<>();

> 		endTimes.put(0, k); // initialize all members at time 0

Reviewer 2: put two spaces after a line of code before you start a comment
```suggestion
		endTimes.put(0, k);  // initialize all members at time 0
```

		for (Interval movie : movies) {
			// find member who finished watching their assigned movies the
			// latest before movie.start
			Integer lower = endTimes.floorKey(movie.start);

			// if such member exists, assign the member to the current movie
			if (lower != null) {
				ans++;
				int lowerValue = endTimes.get(lower);
				// remove the original time in which member finishes movie
				if (lowerValue - 1 == 0) {
					endTimes.remove(lower);
				} else {
					endTimes.put(lower, lowerValue - 1);
				}
				// member now finishes watching at time movie.end
				endTimes.put(movie.end, endTimes.getOrDefault(movie.end, 0) + 1);
			}
		}
		io.println(ans);
		io.close();
	}

	static class Interval {
		int start, end;

		Interval(int start, int end) {
			this.start = start;
			this.end = end;
		}
	}

> 	// BeginCodeSnip{FastIO}

Reviewer 2: i take it kattio doesn't work?

Author: yeah i added a warning block for it
